5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

திராவிட முன்னேற்றக் கழகம்
கடமை

கண்ணியம்

கட்டுப்பாடு


https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021





1/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021
State Rights
1. DMK will continue to fight for restoration of the lost rights of the state.
2. Efforts will be taken to remove ‘Education’ from ‘Concurrent List’ and restore it to ‘State List’
3. DMK in its efforts to oppose the National Education Policy introduced by the BJP Government will formulate a
separate State Education Policy for Tamil Nadu. To achieve this goal, a high-level committee comprising various
educationists and other experts will be established.

Language Policy
4. DMK will fight against Hindi imposition as it had in the past. As articulated by Dr. APJ Abdu Kalam during the
parliamentary debate held in 2004, DMK will continue to urge the Union Govt to take necessary steps to legally
declare all existing state languages as official languages of India including Tamil. This will be an effort to
accomplish the resolution made during the 1996 Trichy Conference. Until this proposal is brought to effect, DMK
will urge the Central Government to conduct all state level competitive examinations including govt jobs, in the
official languages of the respective States.
Tamil language in Central govt Offices
5. DMK will urge Tamil shall to be declared as co-official language in all central government offices including
firms, and national banks located in Tamil Nadu. To achieve this, DMK will push the Central Government to bring
an amendment under Article 343 of the Constitution of India.
Tamil as language of the Madras High Court
6. To reduce the burden of cases before the Supreme Court of India, it has been petitioned before the SC to
consider the case to establish regional branches (Court of Appeal). The matter is pending before the
Constitutional Bench. DMK will urge the Central Government to expedite this process and propel the Central govt
to construct such courts in Tamil Nadu for the Southern Region
Elevating the status of Tamil as Classical language
7. DMK will take efforts to revive the Central Institute of Classical Tamil, Chennai established under Kalaignar’s
regime, and to make it an autonomous institution. Similarly, DMK will urge the Central Govt. to declare Thirukkural
as the National Textbook.
8. DMK will take necessary steps to institute Tamil Chairs in International Universities
9. ‘Semmozhi Poonga’ in Anna Salai will be refurbished. Semmozhi Park will be set up in all Municipal
Corporations.
10. Some of the important and world-famous books will be translated in Tamil and similarly Classic Tamil books
will be translated in other languages
11. Usage of appropriate and standardised format of Tamil script in different media will be implemented through
the necessary legislative action.
Tamil Official Language Section
12. To improve the usage of Tamil language across all departments starting from Secretariat (state level) to
Councillor Office (ward level), a separate wing to develop Tamil as official language will be established
Eelam Tamil’s Welfare
13. Urge the Central govt to appeal to the international community to constitute an independent judicial body to
investigate various human rights violations, war crimes, genocides faced by Sri Lanka
14. Urge the Central Govt to appeal to the United Nations to make necessary intervention to check the political
abuse against Eelam Tamils. To advice the current Govt of Sri Lanka to proceed with a referendum, taking into
consideration the will of the people while making amendments in its Constitution so that Eelam Tamils can have
equal civil and political rights.
Citizenship for Eelam Tamils
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

2/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

15. Many thousands of Tamil refugees fled from Sri Lanka including the refugees under 1964 Sastry- Srimavo
Bandaranayake agreement, and till date live in the refugee camps which was supposed to be a makeshift

கழகம்

arrangement

தலைமை

வெளியீடுகள்

கொள்கைகள்

மு. க. to
ஸ் make
டாலின் necessary laws to grant முரசொலி
16. Urge the Central Govt
Indian citizenship to the Tamil refugees from Sri Lanka

வரலாறு

கலைஞர்
கருணாநிதி
அறிக்கை
that have been living in
refugee
camps for the last 30 years or
so, and to also make arrangements for those

அமைப்பு

willing to return to Sri அறிஞர்
Lanka அண் ணா

மக்கள் பிரதிநிதிகள்

பெரியார்

செய் திகள்
புகைப்படம்

17. A Non-Resident Tamils Department will be created by Government of Tamil Nadu to look after the well-being

அணிகள்

of Tamils living abroad

சமூக பதிவுகள்

காணொளி
நிகழ்ச்சிகள்

முகவரி

Administrative Reforms (Lok Ayukta)

Anna Arivalayam,

18. Steps will be taken to revive Lok Ayukta and its operations. This body will determine complaints including

No 367/369, Anna Salai, Teynampet,
Chennai - 600018.

corruption, malpractice and other statutory violations against MLAs and Ministers
19. Right to Services Act will be passed to streamline the public distribution services including provision of

community certificate, birth/death certificate, income certificate, residential certificate, pension benefits, etc.
+ (91) - 044- 24348258





 Corruption-free
Administration

20. Presently, the DVAC is not functioning efficiently due to interference from the Government. DMK will ensure to
reverse this and will strive to provide corruption-free governance.
21.
At various
instances DMK
has
requested the
Governor
to take
actionⒸagainst
theITcorruption
தனியுரிமை
கொள்கை
விதிமுறைகள்
மற்றும்
நிபந்தனைகள்
தொடர்பு
கொள்ள
தளappropriate
-வரைவு
2022 DMK
WING. All Rights Reserved.
practices of the ADMK Ministers. With the change of Govt, DMK will establish special courts to handle such
corruption cases and expedite its function.
Probing Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s death
22. The DMK-led Govt will probe Jayalalithaa’s death and take appropriate legal action against the offenders
Transparent District Administration
23. To ensure transparency and public accountability, the District Collector office, Councillor Office and BDO shall
promptly display the contents and status of public complaints, and other demands raised by MLAs, and MPs.
MLAs shall be mandated to upload the status of public complaints and demands. To accomplish this, two
computer operators for each MLA office shall be appointed by the Secretariat
24. As part of austerity measures, steps will be taken to cut back wasteful expenditures by Ministers and
Government Officials.
Tamil Nadu Government Debt
25. The incompetent ADMK-led government has increased Tamil Nadu’s outstanding debt to about 9 lakh crores,
thus resulting in every new-born child carrying a debt of 1.25 lakh rupees. To make the necessary intervention
and to advise the government on suitable action plans, a high level expert committee shall be constituted.
Reformation of PSU
26. There are about 83 PSUs in Tamil Nadu including Transport Corporation, Electricity Companies, TASMAC,
Paper Co, TIDCO. Data shows that until 2017, the total revenue loss from the PSUs was 78,854 crores; the
Government investment was 1,53,870 crores; and the outstanding debt of PSUs was about 3 lakh crores.
There are about 3 lakh employees working in PSUs, and its annual revenue is 1,10,850 crores, which is about 10
% of the GSDP. A high-level expert committee shall be constituted to provide inputs to the government to reform
the PSUs, to allow them to increase their productivity and economic output.
Agriculture and Farmer Welfare
27. Last year (2020), the Central Govt had passed the three following farm laws
a. Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation)
b. Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services
c. The Essential Commodities (Amendment)
Against which farmers across the country are protesting till date urging the Central govt to repeal the laws. The
DMK-led Govt will pass a resolution in the Legislative Assembly insisting the Central Govt to repeal the
discriminatory farm laws. Additionally, DMK will repeal the farm laws passed by the ADMK Govt based on the
lines of Central farm laws.
28. DMK will take the necessary steps to prevent the Central govt from introducing the harmful Methane gas and
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

3/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

Shale gas projects that will adversely affect the Delta region of the state.
29. To increase agricultural productivity and output and to protect farmer’s welfare and wellbeing, the Govt will
introduce an annual budget for agriculture after consulting with Farmers’ associations and other organisations.
30. Kalaignar created Uzhavar Sandhais across Tamil Nadu to safeguard farmers from exploitation by middlemen
when they sell their produce such as paddy, vegetables, grains and handicrafts. Similarly, rural markets will be
created and run under the supervision of the Government to ensure no farmer is exploited.
31. One third of the workforce involved in agriculture gain their income from allied agricultural activities. New
opportunities will be created for them to work individually or as a group to generate more income.
32. Farmers will be protected from market fluctuations by a new model to determine the prices of their produce
and will be guaranteed a minimum price. A similar system is in place in the state of Kerala.
33. DMK had promised during the 2019 elections that the farm and jewellery loans of small and medium farmers
shall be waived. The present ADMK government has hastily declared the same without allocating enough funds.
Hence, the DMK will waive all the farm and jewellery loans of small and medium farmers as promised two years
ago by allocating necessary funds.
34. A deadline will be set for cooperative and private sugar mills to pay back any pending amount to sugarcane
farmers and serious action will be taken on failing to do the same.
Minimum Support Price for all food products
35. Agricultural Development Councils will be created with farmer representatives to resolve conflicts in the
agricultural sector, to plan new beneficial schemes for farmers and to fix a minimum support price (MSP) for
farmer produce including but not limited to- bananas, turmeric, tapioca, dals, chilli, millets, tea, oil seeds,
horticultural products, etc. A limited quantity of millets will be procured directly by the government and sold in the
ration shops.
36. A separate department will be created in the agriculture ministry to encourage organic farming.
37. “Organic Farming Research Centre” will be created in the honour of organic farming expert G. Nammazhvar.
38. Input cost subsidy will be provided to farmers engaged in organic farming.
39. Horticulture Research Centre will be created in the 390-acre land owned by the government in Mannavanur,
Kodaikanal to create hybrids and to increase the yield of horticultural products such as fruits, vegetables, flowers
and medicinal herbs.
40. Water bodies across the state will be maintained in a proper manner. Necessary steps will be taken to weed
out Aagaya Thamarai & Seemai Karuvelam Maram plants that have spread around these water bodies, affecting
their capacity and water flow.
41. 90% subsidy will be provided to farmers to encourage the implementation of drip irrigation for up to 5 acres of
land.
100 day NREGA will be extended to 150 days
42. NREGA will be amended to provide 150 days of employment to rural people. The state government will urge
the central government to extend the scheme to cover municipalities as well. Daily wage will be increased to Rs
300.
43. Agricultural produce will be safeguarded and the misuse of agricultural lands without the consent of farmers
will be stopped.
44. All farmers who have applied for power connection for agriculture will be provided connection immediately.
Subsidy for poor farmers to procure electric motors
45. Up to Rs 10,000 subsidy will be provided on buying electric motors to farmers who own less than three acres
of land and do not own electric motors.
46. A one-time 10% subsidy on the purchase of agri-equipments will be provided to small & medium farmers who
are engaged in cooperative farming as a group of ten farmers.
Subsidies to Women in Agriculture
47. 30% subsidy will be provided to goat rearing and hen breeding farms run by widowed, abandoned and
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

4/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

destitute women in groups of 10.
48. Cooperative societies will be created with 12th standard educated, rural women as members. 25% subsidy
will be provided to those engaging in flower gardening, fish farming, ornamental fish culture, mat weaving, basket
weaving, pottery, broiler chicken farming, etc.
49. Zonal committees will be created with farmers, government officers and environmental experts as members to
study water availability, soil fertility, temperature, natural calamities. These committees will provide appropriate
recommendations to the farmers to protect them from natural calamities.
50. Grain warehouses will be created in every panchayat union as per the requirements. These warehouses will
be connected with Purchase centres containing Grain Drying spaces.
51. With more and more human lives being lost due to human-animal conflicts, necessary steps will be taken to
prevent deaths due to human-elephant conflicts. Animal routes in forests will be identified and protection will be
given to people residing in those areas. Compensation for deaths due to human-animal conflicts will increased
from 3 lakh rupees to 5 lakh rupees.
Ban on genetic modification technology
52. DMK will strongly oppose the Central government’s efforts to introduce genetic modification technology of
MNCs in Tamil Nadu and will not permit any experiment to take place in Tamil Nadu.
Horticultural University in Krishnagiri
53. Horticultural university will be established in the 360-acre land in Jeenur, Krishnagiri as announced during the
DMK period.
54. Agricultural university will be established in Madurai to benefit people in Southern Tamil Nadu.
55. Steps will be taken to ensure that food items such as milk, fruits, vegetables, jaggery, palm sugar, dals and
grains required by mid-day meal centres, government student hostels, public sector cafeteria messes are
procured exclusively from cooperative societies.
Incentivising programme for palm jaggery production
56. Special loan schemes and technological facilities will be made available for palm jaggery producers. District
Agricultural Cooperative Societies will directly procure palm jaggery. Schemes will be introduced to upgrade the
technology in producing and processing palm jaggery. Palm jaggery will be added to the list of items for sale for
card holders in ration shops.
57. In the crop insurance scheme, compensation is paid to farmers only when the entire region is affected by a
natural calamity. No compensation is paid when a single farmer’s land is affected. Steps will be taken to ensure
compensation is paid even if just a single farmer’s land is affected. Moreover, steps will be taken to expand the
scheme to crop damage by wildlife interference.
58. Farmers with appropriate identity cards will be allowed to take the sediment soil from small ponds and check
dams for free to use it for agricultural purposes and making handicrafts.
59. Steps will be taken to establish medicinal gardens across Tamil Nadu. Medicinal herbs required for Siddha
medication will be cultivated and steps will be taken to ensure they get an adequate price in the market.
60. Herbal garden in Kavalur, Vellore which was established during the DMK period will be reopened.
61. To encourage sericulture, Government cocoon markets shall be established in various districts and
appropriate price will be fixed for the same.
62. “Coconut neera’ production and processing shall be encouraged through the support of Coconut Farmer
Association to boost the livelihood of coconut farmers
63. To disseminate the benefits of diversified farming in coconut cultivation, layer farming shall be introduced to
coconut farmers that will increase productivity and their income. Subsidies will also be provided to farmers
interested in diversified farming techniques
64. Monetary compensation will be provided to farmers that suffer coconut production loss due to drought and
spider mite infestation
65. Establish a Sub-regional center for Coconut Development Board and integrated farming to increase coconut
productivity in Pollachi and Pattukottai districts Also in Salem Peravurani and Pattukottai districts coir products

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

5/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

productivity in Pollachi and Pattukottai districts. Also, in Salem, Peravurani and Pattukottai districts, coir products
are mostly manufactured by micro and cottage industry workers, and women self-help groups. Through a direct
procurement programme, Govt Cooperative societies will support the livelihood of cottage industry workers and
self-help groups
66. Through Tamil Nadu Coconut Welfare Board, govt shall take steps to directly procure copra coconut, and also
determine its market price. Also, the govt shall take steps to directly procure coconut oil, and distribute it through
ration shops
67. Soil Research Institutes shall be established in Regional agricultural offices located in every Ward within
Panchayat Unions across the state
68. To encourage producers of small grains, cold pressed oils, palm sugar and jaggery, steps will be taken to
distribute palm sugar and jaggery through ration shops
69. Agricultural inputs required for increased production will be delivered to all villages across the state through
farmer-friendly vehicles at support price fixed by the government
70. Information technology and Biotechnology are considered key technologies of the 21st century. Using these
high technologies, farming will be revolutionised, and cash incentives will be provided to encourage such activities
71. New technologies like ‘Micro Watershed Management’ will be introduced for ‘Dry Land Farming and
Wasteland Development’. Government will provide cash incentives to farmers who use dry land farming to
produce micro grains
72. Non-regularised shrimp farming along coastal parts of the state has resulted in deep challenges for the
farmers. Government will take steps to ensure better management practices.
73. The Agricultural College and Research Institute located in Annapannai, Kudumiyanmalai established during
DMK regime has become dysfunctional under ADMK government. The Institute will be revived and upgraded.
74. Build canals and undertake desilting works in the areas surrounding the Cauvery irrigation and delta zone
Additional Support Price for Paddy and sugarcane
75. DMK will increase the support price from 2000 rupees (under present ADMK govt) to 2500 rupees per quintal.
Similarly, for sugarcane, the support price will be increased to 4000 rupees.
Agricultural Co-operative Societies to purchase farm machineries and equipments under a govt Guarantee
scheme

76. With the increasing need for agricultural machineries in farming, many young farmers that cannot afford it are
leaving in search of other jobs. To address this, steps will be taken to facilitate purchase of harvesting machinery
at subsidized rates. To make farming attractive, technologies that revolutionise farming will be introduced to
students each year. About 40 male and female students that have completed grade 12 will be selected to enrol in
Cooperative societies established in every locality. Govt will support such societies by providing bank guarantee
to purchase 5 tractors with trailers, 5 seedling planting machineries, 5 harvesting machineries, together valued at
2.50 crores. Society members will each invest 50,000 rupees that will be used as deposit money at the bank.
Cooperative Societies will offer services including ploughing, seed planting, and harvest at fixed rates for
agricultural lands within its control. The scheme is expected to benefit at least 25,000 young farmers. About 500
Cooperatives on Agricultural Technology are expected to be created across the state.
77. ‘Uzhavar Santhai’ scheme shall be revitalised and expanded to many cities. Mobile Marketing permits will be
introduced to facilitate easy access for urban consumers, ensure fair market price, and increase the business for
farmers.
78. Annual requirement of paddy seed grains for Tamil Nadu is 1,05,500. Particularly, for Kuruvai yield, ADT 43,
ADT 36, ADT 16 and Co (50), CO (51) are the suitable varieties; for Samba yield, the varieties include CR 1009
(savitri), BPT 5204, Andhra Ponni; for Thaladi yield, the varieties include ADT 38, ADT 39, ADT 46, CO 43, ADT
49 and ADT 50. It has been 10 years since some of these varieties were introduced but subsidies for the same
have not been provided regularly. For the newly introduced Co (50), CO (51), ADT 49 and ADT 50 varieties of
seeds, a subsidy of 10 rupees is provided for every kilogram of paddy seed grain. Presently, the ADMK govt is
only offering 17% of the total required paddy seed grains. DMK formed Govt will provide fully subsidised seed
grains to farmers without assessing the variety of seed grains, and its date of validity.
Turmeric Research Institute Erode
79 A state of the art Turmeric Research Institute will be established in Erode
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

6/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

79. A state of the art Turmeric Research Institute will be established in Erode

80.Government will establish an agricultural/farm machineries manufacturing plant in Erode.
Special financial assistance to incentivise date palm tree in Tuticorin, Vellore, Karur and Dharmapuri
districts
81. Special financial assistance including subsidies will be provided to people who come forward to cultivate date
palm trees (rich in iron) in the districts of Tuticorin, Vellore, Karur and Dharmapuri where the soil is found to be
highly conducive to date palm cultivation.
Ban on borewells in hilly regions
82. To maximise profits on cash crops, many illegal borewells are being drilled in the hills to extract ground water,
which has resulted in depletion of resources. This has severely affected the communities during monsoons, and
dry seasons with deluge and water deficit. This has also affected the wildlife- more and more animals are moving
out of their habitat and stray into residential areas for water, thus posing threat to human lives.
Agro Clinics will be established to study (i) pests and diseases that cause crop damage and (ii) crop protection
from pests and diseases. The Clinic will also support dissemination of knowledge from agricultural experts to
farmers on soil quality, water resources and seed qualities.
Water Management
Cauvery- Kuntaru Link Project
83. On 5.2.2009, Kalaignar introduced the Cauvery-Kuntaru Link Project and laid the foundation stone for
commissioning of the barrage across Cauvery on 9.2.2009 at Mayanur in Karur District. Subsequently formed
ADMK govt neglected this project until recently. Suddenly in February 2021, the project work took off with the
Chief Minister laying the foundation stone. It is nothing short of an electoral stunt played by the EPS-led Govt.
When the new Govt under DMK leadership is formed, this project will be expedited to mitigate water loss for
drinking and irrigation requirements.
Thamirabarani- Karumeni- Nambiaru Link Project
SImilarly, in 2008, the Thamirabarani- Karumeni- Nambiaru Link Project was introduced with a budget of 369
crore. On 21.2.2009, Kalaignar laid the foundation stone and inaugurated the project work. The project was
planned to be executed in 4 phases. With the subsequently formed ADMK Govt, the project was held in
abeyance. As soon as DMK Govt is formed in May 2021, the project will be prioritised to help the people of Nellai,
Thoothukudi Districts that are severely affected by drought.
Build Kannika Sluice Gates to benefit 40,000 acres of agri land in Nellai, Thoothukudi, Virudhunagar
region
84. Due to the damaged kannika Sluice Gate and dispute between Tamil Nadu- Kerala regarding the water
distribution from Shenbagavalli dam, our state is facing water shortage. The incoming DMK Govt will renovate the
Kannika Sluice gate and provide water to irrigate about 40000 acres of agri land in Nellai, Thoothukdui and
Virudhunagar region.
New Ministry for Water Resources
85. To study the cause and impact of recent natural calamities including floods, drought, and such like; how to
optimise the water resources and distribution across the state, a new Ministry for Water Resources will be
established to work alongside the Public Works Department.
86. Steps will be taken to renovate water bodies including streams, lakes, ponds in Tamil Nadu; to remove land
encroachments along the water bodies and; to successfully bargain state’s share of inter state water resources, a
Water Management Authority, a statutory body shall be created. The body will consist of members including
weather climate researchers and water resources experts.
Cauvery, Vaigai and Thamirabarani Riverfront Management
87. Separate Commissions will be created to manage and undertake beautification (parks and roads) of
riverfronts of Cauvery, Vaigai and Thamirabarani.
Conversion of Groundbridges to High-level Bridges
88. To prevent waterlogging of streets caused during floods, all existing ground bridges across the state shall be
converted to high-level bridges.
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

7/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

Conservation of lakes and ponds Scheme at 10,000 crore budget, under the direct supervision of Chief
Minister
89. To improve the livelihood of farmers, special schemes to conserve the water bodies in Maduranthagam lake
(Kanchipuram), Thaamal lake (Kanchipuram), Singanallur lake (Coimbatore), ukkadam periya lake (Coimbatore),
Veeranam lake (Cuddalore), Cauvery Paakam (vellore), Kallaperambur lake (thanjavur), vaduvoor lake
(Thiruvarur), Kalumangalam lake (Edakeeziyur), Sellikkurichi lake(Pattukottai), Maariyamman Koyil lake
(thanjavur), Pazhankantham lake, Kandira Theertham lake, Sukkiran lake, Pu. Aathanur periya lake, Pullampadi
lake (Ariyalur), etc.; to build canals to store and distribute water to the required regions; to support irrigation in all
districts and; a State level Water Management Scheme with a budget of 10,000 crore will be set-up under the
Chief Minister’s Monitorable Target.
Build Check Dams at a cost 2000 crore rupees
90. For rivers flowing through Thiruvarur, Krishnagiri, Thanjavur, Perambalur, Villipuram, Cuddalore, and
Nagapattinam districts, a minimum of 200 check dams shall be constructed at a cost of 2000 crore rupees. With a
budget of 3000 crore, high level bridges with 5 sluice gates shall be built in the Kollidam Stone dam area including
Visuvanthattai, Vilaangudi, Veeramangudi, Kudithangi, Vaazhkai.
91. Government will take steps to study the latest geographical landscape including water contour lines and; to
design and manage water flow modelling in streams.
92. Chennai Metro Flood Management Committee consisting of experts in environment, urban planning and
disaster management shall be established to (i) devise flood control methods and (ii) build storm water drainage
to reduce detrimental effects of flood.
Conservation of Chennai Rivers at a cost of 5000 crore rupees
93. Cooum, Adyar, and Kusasthalai are the major rivers in Chennai. Adyar river carries water from about 7 water
zones in the city and drains into the sea. Opening of sluice gates at Chembarambakkam Lake, and other lakes
without announcement is the main reason for flooding of Adyar river. The flooding of Adyar river is the primary
reason for inundated roads and waterlogging in the city. To prevent flooding, steps will be taken at 5000 crore
budget to deepen the city rivers, design storm-water drainage to facilitate transportation of water into the sea and
prevent damage to life and property due to floods.
94. Due to increased coastal wave-current interactions, estuarine dynamics are affected. 24 hours Special
Control Centers will be established during rainy season to prevent flooding due to estuarine dynamics.
95. The ADMK govt with an aim to support global beverage companies, has repealed the TN Groundwater Act,
2013 that aims to protect groundwater. This has disproportionately affected the people. Legislative measures will
be taken to introduce a new Groundwater Act.
96. Dredging & Desilting work will be carried out to manage water stream lines to the irrigation lands surrounding
Thanjavur stone dam area.
97. Steps will be taken to restore and expand the integrated management of Palar- Thamirabarani riverbed
project.
98. As a first step towards interlinking of Indian rivers, DMK will urge the Central govt to commence interlinking of
South Indian rivers.
99. Under the 1969 Parambikulam- Azhiyaru agreement, Kerala has completed the construction of Idaimalaiyaru
Dam. As a follow-up to this, DMK will commence negotiation talks to construct the Anamalai Dam.
100. Steps will be taken to channel water flow by constructing a water tunnel for 15 km connecting Upper Nirar
Dam to Nallar-Thirumoorthy Dam.
101. A new canal to Sathaiyar Dam will be constructed from Periyar-Vaigai primary canal to ensure better
availability of irrigation water for the farmers and to increase the total extent of its land.
102. Pechiparai dam will be desilted and restored.
103. Noyyal river will be restored and a linkage project of Bhavani, Noyyal and Amaravathi rivers will be
implemented.
104. A check dam/canal will be constructed in Ottanchathiram, Thoppampatti regions to use the excess water
from Varada, Shanmuga and Amaravati rivers from flowing into the sea.
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

8/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

105. A linkage project between Therkaaru and Gundaaru will be implemented to provide irrigation facilities to dry
areas in Eastern Virudhunagar district.
106. Salem Mecheri irrigation project will be completed.
107. Salem Thoni Maduvu scheme will be implemented to store water coming from 4 surrounding mountains and
to use it for irrigation.
108. Salem Saanarpatti - Moolakkadu Sambal Irrigation project will be completed.
109. In 2016, DMK had promised in its election manifesto that the Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme to fill small water
bodies around Coimbatore, Erode and Thiruppur districts from the excess water flow from Bhavani river during
monsoon seasons will be completed on a wartime basis. The ADMK did not complete the project in the last 10
years and has now started to work on this for electoral gains. DMK will diligently work towards completing this
scheme started by Kalaignar.
110. Canals will be constructed to link Krishnagiri Padedhaal lake to surrounding lakes to expand irrigation areas.
Aruvaal Mooku Drainage Scheme to prevent flooding in Cuddalore
111. The long pending request of the people of Cuddalore to complete the “Aruvaal Mooku Drainage System” will
be fulfilled and sluice gates will be erected to store freshwater and prevent seawater entering the canal.
Sethusamudram Shipping Canal Project
112. The dream project of leaders Kamarajar, Arignar Anna and Kalaignar Karunanidhi - the Sethusamudram
Shipping Canal Project was started on 02.07.2005 at an estimate of Rs 2500 crores and a significant amount of
the works had been completed. The project is now at a standstill due to inaction of the present government. DMK
will complete the project as soon as the new government is formed and ensure economic benefits for all southern
Tamil Nadu.
Katchatheevu
113. Since 1974, DMK has been continuously urging that the disputed territory of Katchatheevu must be
reclaimed by the Government of India. The rights of Tamil farmers to fish, dry fishing nets and pray at the
churches were suspended during the Emergency period in 1976. Since then, violent incidents by the Srilankan
Army on Tamil farmers have been on the rise. To protect the welfare of Tamil farmers, necessary steps will be
taken to reclaim Katchatheevu.
Fishermen Welfare
·

Fishermen community to be added to Scheduled Tribes

114. DMK will take necessary steps to add the fishermen community as a coastal tribe under the Scheduled
Tribes and to ensure they receive all the benefits under the new reclassification.
115. DMK will urge the Central government to provide a permanent solution to the serious offences against Tamil
farmers by the Srilankan army like assault, arrests and murders. DMK will also urge for a Crisis Management
Centre to be established for conflict resolution.
·

2 lakh new houses for fishermen

116. 2 lakh new houses will be constructed to benefit the fishermen community from coastal districts of Tamil
Nadu. Fishermen who live in the older houses constructed by the slum clearance board which are in deteriorating
condition will be allotted new houses.
117. DMK will strongly urge the central government to establish a National Commission for the Welfare of
Fishermen to ensure the welfare of coastal and inland fishermen in India.
118. The recommendations of the Meena Kumari committee (developed for Deep sea fishing policies) may be
detrimental to the welfare of fishermen and fishing industry in India and in light of the same, DMK will urge the
Central Government to withdraw the committee’s recommendations.
119. Currently, the families of fishermen who have passed away wait for almost 7 years to obtain their death
certificate. Steps will be taken to expedite the process on the basis of the affidavit provided by fishermen
associations.
120. A grievance redressal meeting shall be held once in 3 months in the presence of the Fisheries minister and
the District Collector for the welfare of fishermen.
121. New fisheries colleges and maritime universities will be established to improve scope of higher education
and increase employment opportunities.
122. New schools will be established in fishermen areas. The quality of schools functioning in coastal areas of
Manappadu, Alanthalai & Kallamozhi will be improved.
·

Monsoon and Fishing ban relief to be increased to Rs 8000

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

9/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

·

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

Monsoon and Fishing ban relief to be increased to Rs 8000

123. Relief aid of Rs 5000 given to fishermen for fishing ban days will be increased to Rs 8000. Relief aid of Rs
5000 given to fishermen for monsoon season will be increased to Rs 6000.
124. Subsidised diesel given to motor boats will be increased from 1800 liters to 2000 liters. Fuel provided for
catamaran, fiber boat and traditional boat will be increased from 300 liters to 400 liters.
125. Loans and subsidies will be made available to fishermen cooperative societies to procure boats, nets, search
lights, etc for fishermen.
126. Tractors will be rented to fishermen at a lower price on behalf of the Fisheries department to recover boats.
127. During the DMK period, ice boxes were provided at a subsidised price to fishermen with FRP-IB and
catamaran boats. Similarly, ice boxes will be provided to women who are engaged in selling fish.
128. 20 percent subsidy provided to fishermen who use engines in boats will be increased.
129. 750 OBM machines will be procured every year for the use of fishermen from Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and
Tuticorin districts.
130. Fish Landing site shall be provided to all fishing villages in the state.
131. Monetary compensation of 250 rupees per day upto 2 years shall be provided to families of missing
fishermen that sailed using catamaran (periya padagu).
132. To prevent sea rage and sea erosion, sea erosion barriers and bait arches (thoondil valaivu) will be erected
along the coastal areas in the state.
133. To encourage fishing and its related employment economic activity, fishing harbors and cold storage facilities
will be provided for all coastal areas in the state.
134. Fishing harbors across the state shall be reconstructed and fishing harbors like Kasimedu, Akkaraipettai and
Rameshwaram will be focused for expansion, modernisation and upgradation.
135. Steps will be taken to establish a fishing boat manufacturing unit in Kulachal.
136.Increased floods and Tusnami due to climate change has caused sea distress to fishermen and as a result,
many have been displaced and some have gone missing in recent years. To avoid this, steps will be taken to
establish seamless communication with Merchant Vessels, Navy, Coast Guard and Port Trust that can provide
live feed on weather and climatic changes to guide safe return of fishermen back to the shores.
Handloom Weavers Welfare
137. The Perarignar Anna Silk Park in Kanchipuram was built during DMK rule. It will soon commence operations
with a capacity to provide benefits to about 25,000 handloom weavers.
138. A dedicated cooperative bank will be created for handloom weavers, and they will be provided with distinct
identity cards.
139. Under a preferential scheme, contracts for weaving sarees and dhotis used for cost free public distribution
shall be awarded to handloom weavers. Similarly, school uniform contracts shall also be awarded exclusively to
powerloom weavers.
140. Government shall establish procurement centers for purchase and distribution of yarn to Weavers
association with an aim to assist weavers with uninterrupted supply.
141. The existing schemes that aim to offer additional benefits to weavers under the fabric diversification list shall
be reviewed.
142. Textile Development Commissions will be created to promote the textile industry in Tamil Nadu.
143. Under a subsidised program, Govt shall support the establishment of silk yarn factories.
144. DMK will increase the subsidy to procure cotton and silk yarn under the National Handloom Development
Corporation from 10 percent to 15 percent.
145. DMK will increase the free electricity for handloom weavers from 200 units to 300 units.
146. Steps will be taken to consider an increase from 750units to 1000 units of free electricity for Powerlooms.
This will also apply to Mat Powerlooms. Govt will provide complete support for the promotion, upgradation and
development of the Powerloom sector.
147. Housing subsidy for handloom weavers will be increased to 4 lakh rupees. This will also include urban
weavers.
148. Existing interest rates fixed at Handloom Cooperative Societies shall be reduced from 12 percent to 8
percent.
149. Financial assistance provided to members of Cooperative Handloom Weaver’s Savings and Security
Scheme (CHWSSS) shall be increased from 1000 rupees to 2000 rupees.
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

10/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

(

)

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

p

p

150. DMK will ensure disbursement of discount subsidy, which the Central and ADMK govt has not provided till
date.
Labour Welfare
·

Unorganised Sector Welfare Boards

151. Welfare Boards were established for 36 types of unorganised sector employment during the DMK period.
The present ADMK government has stopped the functioning of these welfare boards which has directly affected
the social security of approximately 2.5 crores workers in the unorganised sector.
DMK will ensure the efficient functioning of these welfare boards and create new welfare boards for new
professions such as photographers/videographers, etc. Also, pension, medical assistance, financial assistance for
education and accident insurance amounts will be increased.
·

Old Pension Scheme for Transport Employees

152. Pension scheme for transport employees was introduced in 1998 during the DMK period and was
discontinued from 01.04.2003 during the ADMK period. The scheme will be implemented again to benefit all
transport employees.
153. Ad hoc and contract workers working in public sector entities and government agencies for more than 10
years will be considered for permanent employment.
154. All cases initiated by the ADMK government against employees who were protesting for their rights will be
withdrawn.
·

Rs 10000 government subsidy to buy autos

155. A subsidy of Rs 10,000 will be provided to drivers from corporations and towns who obtain loans from Tamil
Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Limited (TIIC) or banks to buy new autos.
·

Relief aid of Rs 5000 for salt mine workers during monsoons

156. A relief aid of Rs 5000 will be provided for salt mine workers during monsoons.
157. Speciality hospitals with 50 beds capacity will be established in regions where beedi workers are found in
large numbers, with the help of welfare grants from the central government.
158. Steps will be taken to provide equipment at a subsidised cost to washermen and to construct new washing
centres in corporations, municipalities and towns.
Education - Higher Education - Education Loan
159. Graduate education loans for students from schools in Tamil Nadu, who are under 30 years of age, who are
unable to pay it back within a year will be repaid by the government.
Ban on NEET Examination
160. The NEET examination has affected the chances for Tamil Nadu students to enroll in medical education.
Students could enroll in medical courses on the basis of their 12th standard marks during Kalaignar’s period.
DMK will pass the legislation against the imposition of NEET exam in Tamil Nadu and will take the necessary
steps to obtain the consent of the Hon’ble President on the same.
161. The social justice vision and the goals of the Tamil Nadu government have been hindered by the order of the
central government to allocate 15% of UG seats, 50% of PG seats and 100% of advanced, specialised medical
courses in colleges run by the TN government to the central pool.
With the central government creating 50,000 new medical seats in 500 colleges, DMK will urge the central
government to withdraw its order and allocate all the seats of medical colleges run by the state government to the
state pool.
Free of cost sanitary napkins for government school and college students
162. Automatic vending machines will be installed to provide free of cost sanitary napkins for government and
government-aided school and college students.
163. Government will provide tablet devices to students studying higher secondary schools and colleges with
4G/5G connectivity and 10GB data connection. All educational institutions will be equipped with wi-fi facilities.
164. The DMK government will establish new medical colleges in districts where currently there are no medical
colleges.
165. Government will bear the fees of the first generation economically backward students who enrol in
engineering, medical and agricultural courses through the single-window system, irrespective of caste or religion.
166. Special measures will be taken to provide foreign language courses in all colleges and universities to
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

11/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

166. Special measures will be taken to provide foreign language courses in all colleges and universities to
encourage students to find employment abroad.
167. Special coaching classes will be held in all district headquarters by the government to coach students
appearing for IIT, NIT, AIIMS, IIM entrance examinations.
168. Coaching centres to help students appearing for competitive exams conducted by the UPSC, Tamil Nadu
government, Railways and banks will be established in Chennai, Madurai, Trichy, Coimbatore, Salem and
Tirunelveli.
School Education
169. Milk will be provided to students in government and government-aided schools in the morning to improve the
students’ nutrition.
100% literacy in Tamil Nadu
170. Steps will be taken to transform Tamil Nadu into a 100% literate state in three years. Necessary efforts will
be taken to reclassify education under the state list from the concurrent list in the Constitution.
171. English research centres will be revived and Coaching classes will be held in collaboration with institutions
such as British Council on MoU basis to equip government school children with spoken English skills.
172. Subjects on environment and agriculture will be added in the syllabus for school students to become aware
of the world around them. Steps will be taken to allocate at least 3 periods for physical education.
173. Special steps will be taken to ensure linguistic minority students can learn their mother tongue in addition to
Tamil and English languages at schools.
174. Transparency will be ensured in the transfer process for state government school teachers.
175. The Anna Centenary Library will be renovated and upgraded.
176. Transparency will be ensured in the procurement of books and better-quality books will be procured in the
libraries under the purview of the Tamil Nadu Library Committee.
177. Necessary steps will be taken to ensure youngsters who have cleared the TET exam and have not been
allotted a job since 2013 get a job at the earliest. Legal recommendations will be made to provide lifetime
eligibility on TET qualification certificates.
178. Librarians working in rural areas will be given interim jobs at various intervals.
Employment
179. Priority will be given to first generation graduates in government jobs.
180. Coaching centres will be run in every district to enable women who have graduated from colleges to gain
employment opportunities.
181. Part time art, music and physical education teachers will be considered for permanent employment in the
Department of School Education.
182. All district libraries will be renovated and upgraded. All the details of the books in these libraries will be
uploaded to an online catalogue for the public to view. New books and newspapers will be added to all rural
libraries established during the DMK period.
183. Libraries will be established in the hometowns of notable Tamil poets- Karmegha Konar, Tamizhavel Uma
Mageshwaranar, Na Mu Venkatasamy Nattar and Tamil Thaatha U Ve Swaminatha Iyer.
184. Thanmana Thalapathy Alagiri Memorial Hall will be constructed in honour of Anjaanenjan Alagirisamy in
Pattukottai.
Employment and Skill Training
185. Due to the lack of long-term vision and ineffective administration of the ADMK government, unemployment
has increased sharply, thereby affecting the 8,00,000 students who graduate from different technical education
courses in Tamil Nadu.
A massive scheme to provide 10 lakh jobs each year and 50 lakh jobs for youngsters at the end of 2025-26 will be
implemented from 2021. A new institution called STEP - State Board of Skill Training and Employment Promotion
will be established.
Employment centres will function as coaching centres. Also, Incubation Centres will be established for startups,
and new employment opportunities will be created in sectors including artificial intelligence.
Right to Skill Training Act
186. Right to Skill Training Act will be passed to provide skill training and to ensure a job or self-employment
opportunity for children who were abandoned by their parents, abandoned transgender people, persons with
special needs who are unable to go to regular school.

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

12/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

5.50 lakh jobs in Government Departments
187. 3.50 youngsters from Tamil Nadu will be appointed to the unfilled job vacancies across Tamil Nadu.
188. 75,000 youngsters will be appointed to supervise and act on behalf of the state government regarding the
conservation and restoration of water bodies and forest areas across Tamil Nadu. Of this, 30,000 seats will be
reserved for women candidates.
189. 75,000 road workers will be appointed to TNRDC to supervise public assets including roads and
bridges/flyovers. Of this, 30,000 seats will be reserved for women candidates.
Conservation of Public Trusts and Charities- employment opportunities for 25000
190. To protect and conserve Hindu temples that are under the control and administration of Tamil Nadu HR&CE
department, 25000 youth will be appointed as temple employees.
191. 25000 women will be appointed as community welfare workers. They will act as liaison officers/ advocates
that strengthen the capacity of govt officials to engage with citizens and ease communication between govt and
the people. They will work in villages under the supervision of Block Development Officers (BDO).

Industrial Growth
Economic Recovery of Hard-hit Industries at a cost of 15,000 crore financial assistance
192. The corona pandemic-imposed lockdown; corona preventive measures like social distancing, cancellation of
public transportation services has heavily impacted industries, in many cases leading to shut down. DMK will set
aside 15,000 crores to support the revival of such industries and enable employment opportunities to its
employees by providing loans at low-interest.
Increase the number of Industry Clusters
193. Robust industrial growth policy was intensively undertaken during the DMK regime. Policies that will enable
diversified industrial growth based on natural resources and other resources will be implemented, which will lead
to increased economic opportunities, without limiting to the agricultural sector.
Creation of Special Companies to offset fiscal stress
194. Special and dedicated companies similar to TIDCO, SIDCO, TIIC will be established to work alongside
banks to offer financial support for the growth of micro and small business.
Closing gaps in technology
195. Technological change in accelerating today at an unprecedented speed. To bridge this gap and produce
employable opportunities, DMK will strive to create tie-ups between IT firms and higher education institutions.
196. DMK assures to introduce legislation to reserve 75 percent of private sector jobs for locals.
Recovery of distressed industries
197. Bad governance of ADMK has led industries to economic distress. To revive such micro and small
enterprises, DMK will propel to constitute an expert committee consisting of industrialists, banking experts,
financial institutions and government departments to formulate necessary schemes and action plans.
198. DMK will take steps to lay new power lines to industries and industrial estate to ensure uninterrupted supply
of electricity.
199. Under Kalaignar’s rule, a single-window system was followed to attract investment, which has been done
away by the present ADMK govt due to prevalent corruption. As a result, the state has seen a massive decline in
industrial growth. DMK will re-introduce the single window system to encourage investments.
New Ministry for Mines and Minerals
200. To protect and regularise usage of mineral resources of the state including prevention of malpractices and
abuse of resources and; to increase the revenue of the government, a new Ministry for Mines and Minerals will be
established. Steps will be taken to strengthen the technological capacity of TAMIN. The Ministry will introduce the
policy and framework to regulate extraction of rare minerals and increase the revenue through such activities.
201. To revive the distressed rubber workers in Kanyakumari who have lost their livelihoods, DMK will set up a
manufacturing plant to produce rubber based products.
202. As followed under the erstwhile DMK regime, Tamil Nadu public sector undertakings shall set a goal of
minimum 15 percent of its total annual purchases from the products of micro and small industries with 10 percent
discount on the agreed pricing.
203. To promote industrial growth in Southern Tamil Nadu, DMK will plan and develop an industrial corridor
between Madurai and Thoothukudi. Similarly, extend the Chennai-Thiruperumputhur industrial corridor to Hosur.
204. To encourage entrepreneurship, first generation engineering graduates will be offered business loans at low
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

13/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

interest.
205. New Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) will be set up in industrial cities.
206. To support and encourage unemployed (youth) graduates that are interested in launching their own startups, each year TIIC will arrange for 20 lakh rupees as low interest loans for 25,000 persons.
207. Steps will be taken to establish Indian Institute of Foundries in Coimbatore.
208. Steps will be taken for expansion and modernisation of Integrated Steel plants in Salem to increase its
economic output and productivity.
209. Low intensity electrical power consumption of industries will be increased from 150 H.P to 200 H.P.
210. Powerloom units that consume electric power between 20 hp and 40 hp will be allowed a subsidised tariff
under Special rule III A 1 instead of regular under tariff III B.
211. ‘Leather Parks’ will be set up in several districts including Dindigul, Vellore and Chennai.
212. The present authority overseeing permission to use land as poultry farms is the Directorate of Town &
Country Planning. DMK will revert this to its former authority, Panchayat Union that used to handle poultry
licensing and development plans.
213. Action plan will be developed to promote and safeguard fireworks industries that provide livelihood to about
10 lakh families in the state.
214. Chidambaram is renowned for its World-famous gold covering and imitation jewellery. To promote this
business, both locally and globally, a special industrial estate will be set up in Chidambaram.
Industrial Waste treatment Facility
215. Industries play a key role in air and water pollution.To manage and control the discharge of industrial
effluents, DMK shall urge the Central Govt to provide assistance to set up Common Effluent Treatment Plants
(CETPS) in several districts including Tiruppur, Erode, karur, Dindigal, Vellore, Aruppukottai.
216. DMK will provide subsidised electricity to meet the power needs of the proposed Common Effluent
Treatment Plants (CETPS).
Youth Welfare
217. To encourage employment opportunities among youth, steps will be taken to create new ‘Youth selfempowerment groups’ consisting of 15 persons. The members must be under 40 years of age with a minimum
academic qualification of grade 12 or an equivalent diploma in technical education. Govt will provide 25 percent
assistance, groups to invest 10 percent, and the remaining amount shall be loaned through banks. Producers will
be provided a 10percent incentive during the public procurement process.
This will help more and more youth to become entrepreneurs. Eventually, it will lead to creation of more
employment opportunities. And, also push the growth of the Manufacturing sector of Tamil Nadu. This will be
another milestone in Govt’s initiative to empower the youth.
218. Tamil Nadu is home to many micro and small enterprises including fireworks, locks, silk, mixers, grinders.
Many families are dependent on this business for their livelihoods. To safeguard and promote MSMEs (including
exports), aid and assistance will be provided by the Govt under special schemes.
219. To promote egg business, warehouses will be set up across Namakkal to facilitate the egg refrigeration
process that will allow the traders to store commercially sold eggs for a longer period.
Electricity
220. Electricity generation and distribution will be increased on wartime basis to provide uninterrupted supply of
power to residents and commercial centers.
Monthly payment of Electricity Bills
221. The existing system of bimonthly payment of electricity bills will be replaced with a monthly payment system
to ease the financial burden on people. This scheme will enable a user household to save upto 6000 rupees (for
<1000 units) annually.
222. The three-phase charge of 50 rupees levied with electricity charges will be cancelled.
223. The existing Electricity bill payment methods include online banking, direct payment at EB, and payment at
banks. This will be discontinued and payment shall be directly made to the EB official that records electricity
readings.
224. Sugar factories across Tamil Nadu will be encouraged to produce electricity. Action plan will be developed to
enable TANGEDCO to purchase electricity directly from such sugar factories.
225. To encourage consumption of renewable energy, steps will be taken to optimise the efficient usage of
electricity by replacing the existing traditional power consumption at govt schools, govt colleges, temples and govt
offices with solar panels.
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

14/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

226. To encourage Agricultural biomass fuel producers, Govt will purchase the power generated under this
scheme using the Public- Private Partnership (PPP) model via public procurement. Agro-waste fuel is a growing
field that has potential to create many employment opportunities. Unemployed graduates that show keen interest
to invest and work in this field will be incentivised.
227. To reduce electricity wastage, and promote efficient usage of electricity, steps will be taken to lay special
power transmission lines in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari, Tiruppur, Dindigul, Pollachi, Udumalaipet and
Theni.
228. To prevent electricity theft, underground cables will be laid (phased manner) across all cities in the state.
229. Steps will be taken to revive the scheme of providing electricity to all ration cardholders in Nilgiris district.
The scheme was originally introduced during the DMK regime and was later suspended under the ADMK-led
government.
Udangudi & Cheyyur Power Projects
230. Udangudi Power Project and Cheyyur Thermal Power Projects will be implemented on a wartime basis.
These projects were started during the DMK period and have been subjected to a number of issues due to the
maladministration of the ADMK government.
Additional 20,000 MW Power Generation
231. The present ADMK government has not implemented the power generation plans that were laid out during
the DMK period. As a result, TNEB is facing severe losses and huge corruption is taking place while procuring
power from private companies at a higher price. The general public is paying a high price for the
maladministration of the present government. DMK will take necessary steps to increase power generation
through renewable energy sources such as solar and windmills to produce additional 20,000 MW.
232. Old, expired private windmills will be removed and permission to install new windmills at the same places will
be issued as per government guidelines.
233. EN METER devices that are installed by the solar power board are not easily available. DMK will ensure
faster procurement of these devices to increase solar power generation in the state.
Public Distribution System
234. Eligible people who have applied for a ration card will be provided with a smart card within 15 days of
application.
235. 20 kgs of rice will be provided free of cost to ration card holders. High quality rice will be provided through
this scheme.
236. Ration shops that are under the control of several departments will be brought under a single department.
237. All existing ration cards will be upgraded to smart cards. The entire public distribution system will be
computerised. All details of available items in the ration shops will be displayed on digital boards.
238. To ensure hygiene and fairness, steps will be taken to issue ration shop items including sugar, maida, dals,
cooking oil in packets.
239. 3 LED bulbs will be issued at a subsidised price to all card holders to promote energy-saving practices.
240. Additional 1 kg of sugar will be provided at ration shops. Scheme to provide urad dal which was discontinued
during the ADMK period will be implemented again.
Tourism
241. A Master Plan will be devised to- improve tourism in the state, boost foreign exchange and employment in
tourism and ensure welfare of tourists. Infrastructural developments will be made in tourist attractions such as
Mahabalipuram, Courtallam, Ooty, Kodaikanal, etc.
242. Old forts, palaces and mahals constructed during Nayakas, Palaiyakkarars, Marathas period will be restored
and renovated.
Women Welfare
243. Maternity leave for women working in state government jobs will be increased from 9 months to 12 months.
Women and Child Welfare Schemes
244. A special “Women and Child Welfare Scheme” will be implemented under the direct supervision of the Chief
Minister. Through this scheme, medical facilities including check-ups, medicines and vaccinations will be provided
to pregnant women at their doorsteps by doctors and supporting staff in a mobile hospital.
245. Nursing (breastfeeding) stations with privacy will be created in all public places.
246. Reservation for women will be raised from 30% to 40% in all government jobs.
247 DMK will urge the central government to pass the 33% reservation bill for women members in the
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

15/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

247. DMK will urge the central government to pass the 33% reservation bill for women members in the
Parliament.
Cancer screening test for Women
248. Awareness will be created among women about different types of cancer that commonly affect women.
Screening tests and diagnosis will be done for the same in all government hospitals.
249. Steps will be taken to form sexual harassment committees in all factories and industries as per legal
guidelines. Safety of women from harassment and other untoward events at the workplace will be made high
priority.
Welfare of Widowed Women
250. The present ADMK government has not taken any steps to improve the living conditions of widowed women
in the state. Steps will be taken to provide jobs for widowed/abandoned women above 35 years of age according
to their qualification to ensure their safety and a good future for their children.
252. A welfare board for widowed women will be created.
Rs 24,000 for pregnant women
252. A total amount of Rs 24,000 given in 8 month installments will be provided to pregnant women under Dr
Muthulakshmi Reddy Maternity Benefit scheme. The existing scheme provides Rs 18,000.
253. Working women’s hostels will be constructed in all districts.
Cyber Police Stations to address cyber crimes against women
254. Cyber police stations will be set up in all districts with technically qualified, trained employees to address the
increasing prevalence of cybercrimes against women and children.
255. Rs 25,000 given as financial assistance through E.V.R Maniammaiyar Ninaivu Poor Widows Daughters
Marriage Assistance Scheme will be increased to Rs 30,000. 8 grams of 22 carat will be provided.
Financial assistance for women’s marriage who have completed graduate/ITI education will be raised from Rs
50,000 to Rs 60,000. 8 grams of 22 carat gold will be provided.
256. Financial assistance for women’s marriage through Annai Teresa Orphan Girl Marriage Financial Assistance
scheme will be raised from Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000. 8 grams of 22 carat gold will be provided.
Financial assistance for women’s marriage who have completed graduate/ITI education will be raised from Rs
50,000 to Rs 60,000. 8 grams of 22 carat gold will be provided.
257. Financial assistance for women’s marriage (for women who have studied till 10th standard) through
Moovalur Ramamirtham Ammaiyar Memorial Marriage Assistance Scheme will be raised from Rs 25,000 to Rs
30,000. 8 grams of 22 carat gold will be provided.
Financial assistance for ST and hilly tribal women’s marriage (for women who have studied till 10th standard) will
be raised from Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000. 8 grams of 22 carat gold will be provided.
Financial assistance for women’s marriage who have completed graduate/ITI education will be raised from Rs
50,000 to Rs 60,000. 8 grams of 22 carat gold will be provided.
258. Financial assistance for widowed women’s remarriage through Dr. Dharmambal Ammaiyar Ninaivu Widow
Remarriage Scheme will be raised from Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000. 8 grams of 22 carat gold will be provided.
Financial assistance for women’s marriage who have completed graduate/ITI education will be raised from Rs
50,000 to Rs 60,000. 8 grams of 22 carat gold will be provided.
Anjugam Ammaiyar Ninaivu Intercaste Marriage Assistance Scheme
259. In order to support inter-caste marriages and as a step towards abolishing discrimination based on caste,
Anjugam Ammaiyar Ninaivu Intercaste Marriage Assistance scheme was introduced by Kalaignar. A GO will be
released to re-implement this scheme.
If one of the partners in an inter-caste marriage is from a Scheduled Tribe, a special assistance of Rs 60,000 and
8 grams of 22 carat gold will be provided.
260. 25% subsidy along with loan facilities will be provided to women SHGs who invest 10% of total expenditure
to manufacture products that will be procured on top-priority basis by government and public sector offices.
MSME loans to 1 lakh women
261. Interest-free loan of Rs 50,000 will be given to 1 lakh women from BPL families for cottage industries such
as animal husbandry, fishing, color fish farming, pottery, etc.
262. Government jobs will be provided to unmarried women who are over 35 years of age according to their
qualification.
Self- help groups

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

16/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

pg

p

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

263. Shortly after DMK announced that the cooperative society loans of the women SHGs will be waived, ADMK
promised that it will waive the said loans. But the ADMK government did not fulfill its promise. DMK will ensure
that these loans are waived and the Poo Malai scheme to sell SHG manufactured products will be carried out in
an efficient manner.
264. Gold loans from cooperative societies for under 5 sovereigns of gold will be waived. SHGs for unemployed
youth will be created across Tamil Nadu.
Welfare of Backward and Most Backward Communities
265. DMK will stress upon the central government to withdraw the criteria of setting an income ceiling/limit to
backward classes. The Indian constitution says “socially and educationally backward” and does not have a clause
that says “economically backward” in Article 15(4).
Raise income ceiling for OBCs Creamy Layer to Rs 25 lakhs
266. DMK will urge the central government to increase the income ceiling of OBCs to Rs 25 lakh from the current
Rs 8.5 lakh, as per the recommendations of the National Commission for Backward Classes.
DMK will urge to provide the same authority to the National Commission for Backward Classes as that of the
National Commission for Scheduled Castes.
267. DMK will urge to bring an amendment to enable states to allocate reservation for MBCs, SCs and STs based
on the respective state’s composition.
268. The 27% reservation for OBCs in government jobs was recommended by the Mandal Commission and
implemented by then Prime Minister VP Singh. However, the present government seems to be unfair to the OBC,
SC & ST communities by not following the reservation pattern. DMK will urge the central government to strictly
follow the recommendations of the Mandal Commission in reservation for backward communities.
Reservation in Private Sector
269. The National Commission For Backward Classes has recommended that 27% reservation be provided for
jobs in the private sector as well. TN government will urge the private sector companies to provide reservation to
OBC, SC & ST communities.
270. Due to the efforts of DMK, for the first time in the history of Judges appointment to High Courts and the
Supreme Court, in 1973, Justice A. Varadharajan from Scheduled Caste was appointed as a judge to the Madras
High Court. He was later elevated to the Supreme Court. Although reservation is followed in appointment of
judges to lower courts, there is no such system for High Courts or the Supreme Court. DMK will urge the Central
govt to pass appropriate legislation to incorporate reservation in appointment of judges to High Courts and the
Supreme Court. It is important to note there are about 400 vacancies to be filled.
271. In response to the request to conduct a caste census, the Central Govt had conducted a socio Economic
and Caste census including only people from below poverty line (BPL). Despite the request made by DMK MPs,
the govt refused to release the data. As the poverty threshold is in flux, it is important to conduct caste census for
the entire population. DMK will urge the Central govt to act upon this.
272. DMK will urge the Central Govt to implement the recommendation of Mandal Commission and follow 27
percent reservation for backward community in admissions to IIT and other educational institutions, and
appointment of teachers.
273. The request to include ‘Viswakarma’ community in Most Backward Community (MBC) will be decided after
careful deliberation.
274. Reservation for Viswakarma Community in appointment of Temple Boards Trustees under Hindu Religious &
Charitable Endowments will be introduced.
Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare
275. DMK will undertake steps to revive the policy to provide reservation in government jobs to Adi Dravidar and
Scheduled Tribes jobs to fill the backlog vacancies.
276. First generation women (daughters of farmers) from Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribe communities, who are
eligible to pursue medicine or engineering, will be provided full scholarship (tuition plus hostel fees). The scheme
will also extend children born out of inter caste marriage with Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribe community.
277. The Special Component Plan (SCP) introduced by the Central Govt in 1980-81 to empower Adi Dravidar and
Scheduled Tribe Community has not been implemented effectively under the ADMK-led Govt. Steps will be taken
to strictly enforce SCP so as to enable people of the reserved communities to reap its benefits.
278. DMK will provide improved hostel infrastructure for Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribe Community. Food
allowance provided to the students will be periodically revised according to food inflation and other costs.
279. Annual Education Scholarships for Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribe Community students will be increased.
280. DMK will propel the Central Govt to include Nari Kuravar, Kuruvikarar, Vettaikarar, Lambadi and Badugar
communities under Scheduled Tribe (ST) list so as to enable about 15 lakh people of these communities to utilise
the benefits of reservation.
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

17/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

Also, a procedural framework will be introduced to assess and issue community certificates to people of Hindu
Kanikkar and Irular communities across all districts.
The time delay in issuing community certificates to Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities will be mitigated through
an expedited process.
Sanitation Workers’ Welfare
281. Improvised Solid Waste Management plan will be introduced in small and medium sized cities, with a
population of 50,000. Places with the Open Drainage (OD) system will be replaced with the UnderGround
Drainage (UGD) system in the next 5 years. Manual scavenging will thus be eradicated and such sanitary
workers will be transferred to other jobs.
282. Sanitary workers will get one day off every week. Persons who choose to work on such holidays will be paid
Over Time Wages.
283. Compassionate appointment in government jobs to children of sanitary workers (based on academic
qualification) who suffer death during the course of employment will be introduced.
284. Steps will be taken to provide promotion to appropriate posts based on academic requirements for persons
who have passed grade 10 during their regular service as sanitary workers.
285. Steps will be taken to fulfil the promises regarding employment, salary, pension and other benefits made to
sanitary workers employed in Panchayat Union, Town/ Municipality, and Corporation.
Welfare of Minorities (Marginal Communities)
286. During the DMK regime, Adi Dravidar reservation for Buddist-Dalits was provided. Similarly, DMK will urge
the Central Govt to act upon the findings of Justice Ranganath Misra Committee that recommended for SC
reservation to Dalit converts (Christians).
287. DMK will propel the Central Govt to act upon the findings of the Sachar Committee that studied the social
and economic conditions of Muslims in the country. The Committee made recommendations regarding equal
opportunities in education, housing, and employment for minorities.
288. To promote education opportunities to the minority communities and promote their economic empowerment,
particularly for women, special schemes under the Education for Development program will be introduced.
289. The requests made by Wakf Board will be reviewed for suitable action.
Welfare of Persons with Disabilities (PWD)
290. Under the Persons with Disabilities Act, 1995, State Coordination Committees shall be constituted to monitor
the actions of the Government in formulating policies and its implementation. The ADMK government has failed to
form such a committee and the new Govt formed by DMK will expedite its constitution. To expand the scope of
beneficiaries under this Act, DMK will take steps to change the severity of disability from 60 to 40 percent.
291. Under the transportation program for Persons with Disabilities, free bus transportation will be provided for
PWD including one person accompanying them.
292. Smart Card for Persons with Disabilities.
293. Motorised three-wheeler for Students who are differently abled.
294. Four percent reservation in government employment for PWD.
295. Ramp and toilet facilities for PWD shall be installed in public places like hospitals and bus stops to enable
them to access.
296. Skills development through Industrial Training Institute (ITI) and subsidised loans will be provided to promote
self- employment opportunities for PWD.
297. Allotment of houses under Housing Scheme and Slum Clearance Board for Persons with Disabilities.
Trader’s Welfare
298. To protect vendors - vegetable, fruits, fish, flower, laundry, juice, cobbler, tea/coffee stall, etc from usury
interest, measures to introduce an interest free loan scheme through cooperative banks up to 15,000 rupees with
a provision to repay in weekly instalment shall be undertaken. To protect their welfare, a Regulatory Committee
consisting of members from Local government, Police, Traders/ Vender’s Association, Residents' Association will
be formed. Also, vendor self-help groups will be created to support their employment growth.
Fees collected by local bodies from vendors operating in weekly markets (sandhai), pavement, mobile shops will
be cancelled.
299. Due to the efforts of DMK MPs, the Central Govt declared that no foreign direct investment (FDI) will be
permitted without prior approval of the state governments. DMK will not allow FDI that will affect the livelihood of
local retail businesses in the state.
300 V

d

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

th t

f

t

l

i

t th P

dT

i

db B

i

T

A th iti

i dt

18/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

300. Vendors that prefer to appeal against the Proposed Tax imposed by Business Tax Authorities are required to
pay 25 percent of the proposed amount. Steps will be taken to repeal this provision.

Review of increased rents in municipality shops
301. New rent slabs will be introduced upon the review of existing high rents charged by the ADMK government in
the corporation and municipality owned shops that have put the shopkeepers in deep misery.
302. Traders Welfare Board will be made more efficient and more members will be enrolled.
303. Steps will be taken to re-include 21 enterprises such as matchbox making, fireworks making and candle
making in the MSME list published by the central government.
304. Trade Centres will be created in Madurai, Tuticorin, Tiruppur, Erode cities to improve trade and economy.
305. Deteriorating enterprises such as salt production, silver anklet making, brass enterprises, silver lamp
making, vessel making etc will be declared as cottage industries and steps will be taken to boost the production in
these enterprises.
306. Wick production for fireworks will be declared cottage industry and safety measures will be taken for the
large number of women employed in wick production.
307. Necessary efforts will be taken to ban the sale of imported fireworks in Tamil Nadu.
Teachers and Government Employee Welfare
308. Government pensioners receive 20% higher pension from 80 years of age. This scheme will be revised and
a 10% hike will be provided from 70 years and additional 10% will be provided from 80 years of age.
Old Pension Scheme
309. The Old Pension Scheme will be implemented again, replacing the New Pension Scheme.
310. Joint Committee of General Secretary / Department Secretary / Department Head and State Administrative
Tribunal will be formed again.
Equal Wage for Equal Employment
311. Equal wage for teachers with Rs 8000 basic pay has been requested for several years. DMK will provide
periodic pay for these 20,000 teachers. Incentives will be provided to teachers who have completed higher
education during employment.
Relief for Affected Teachers
312. Relief will be provided to teachers who were booked under 17B section during protests in terms of their
salary hikes and promotions through the formation of a dedicated committee to review the cases.
Appointment of Anganwadi and Midday Meal Workers
313. Appointment and periodic pay will be ensured for Anganwadi and Midday Meal Workers. Minimum pension
and gratuity will be provided.
314. Compensation provided to the families of government servants and teachers who die during their service will
be raised from 3 lakh rupees to 5 lakh rupees.
315. Compassionate employment for a legal heir and a family welfare fund of rupees 5 lakhs will be provided for
the families of government servants who have died of natural causes and who were vengefully fired by the ADMK
government.
316. The 50% part time work experience of ad hoc employees who were made permanent staff in the school
education department will be considered for pension calculation.
317. Job and pay related grievances of workers in Tamilnadu Khadi And Village Industries Board, Mosquito
Control Supervisors in Health department, etc will be addressed at the earliest.
318. The New Medical Insurance Scheme will be revised with a higher spending limit for families to include
expenses for in-patient treatment and advanced surgeries in private hospitals.
Pension for temple employees
319. Pension will be raised to Rs 5000 and Pongal bonus will be considered for retired employees who worked in
temples.
Welfare of Transgender People
320. Assistance of Rs 1000 provided to transgender people will be raised to Rs 1500.
321 Sl m Clearance Board ill allot ho ses to transgender people on a need basis

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

19/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

321. Slum Clearance Board will allot houses to transgender people on a need basis.
Welfare of Senior Citizens
322. Assistance provided to all eligible senior citizens will be raised to Rs 1500 to Rs 1000 and assured delivery
of the assistance will be ensured through the postal department.
323. Senior citizen centres will be created in all district headquarters and they will be provided with basic
amenities such as food, shelter and clothing. Steps will be taken to implement this scheme in collaboration with
local NGOs and altruistic institutions.
324. A separate queue will be maintained for an hour in all temples run by the HR&CE department for darshan for
senior citizens in mornings and evenings.
325. Geriatric wards will be created with advanced facilities in all government hospitals.
Welfare of Children
326. Child trafficking in Tamil Nadu is increasing at an alarming rate. Strict trials and punishment will be ensured
for those involved in such illegal activities.
327. An infant welfare scheme will be implemented to improve the nutrition of malnourished infants. A Food
Basket Scheme to provide nutritious foods to these infants will be implemented.
328. Female foeticide practice will be banned completely by taking appropriate, severe legal action on them.
329. Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act will be enforced and special attention will be paid to the
education of children.
Social Security Benefits
330. Financial assistance provided to senior citizen women, widowed women, abandoned women, unmarried
women of over 50 years of age, Sri Lankan refugees, persons with disabilities and beneficiaries of the Chief
Minister's Farmers Security Scheme will be raised from Rs 1000 to Rs 1500.
Kalaignar Canteens in 500 locations
331. Kalaignar Canteens will be started in 500 locations in the first phase to provide food at a subsidised cost for
poor, underprivileged people across the state.
332. A separate reservation of 2.5% for students from government aided schools will be ensured in medical
colleges. Currently, only 7.5% reservation is being followed and this reservation excludes students from
government-aided schools in the state.
333. Night Shelter Houses will be established to provide shelter for people who sleep on platforms and roadsides
at nights.
334. Steps will be taken to provide caste and income certificates for students in their respective schools.
Currently, the system does not allow students to obtain these certificates from their school.
335. To eradicate the illegal ‘Katta Panchayat’ system that has often widened the social disparity among various
communities and resulted in various crimes, a high level committee headed by a retired High Court Judge and
consisting of Secretaries from Home Department, Legal Department, Senior Women Police Officer, Senior
Newspaper Editor, and civil society organisation will be constituted to view this issue seriously and advise the
Government.
Reservation
336. DMK will consider public requests like internal reservation and changing of community names, and taking
appropriate actions in line with the Dravidian ideals and values as proposed by Thanthai Periyar, Arignar Anna,
and Muthamizh Arignar Kalaignar.
Welfare of Journalists and Media Persons
337. A Commission to govern the welfare of journalists and media persons will be created to enforce the
recommendations of Justice Majithia Commission. Although many states across India had implemented the
recommendations, the ADMK Govt had failed to enforce it and further misinformed about its implementation
status to the Majithia Commission. DMK will form an independent Commission including members from Labor
Welfare Department and Police Department to administer the welfare of journalists including revise the Press
regulations; to provide skills training; to settle disputes between the management and workers; settle disputes
between public, press and police; to decide pension related disputes; and to increase the amount of family
welfare fund.
338. Pension scheme for journalists will be reviewed and substantial increase will be provided per the scheme
laid during the DMK regime.
339. Due compensation for any injury or damage to property caused in the course of employment.
340. Five lakh rupees will be awarded towards employees’ compensation for death.
341 Residential plots for journalists will be allotted in cities like Madurai Trichy Kovai Salem and Nellai
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

20/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

341. Residential plots for journalists will be allotted in cities like Madurai, Trichy, Kovai, Salem and Nellai.
342. False cases instituted against journalists in the last 5 years shall be withdrawn.
People’s Welfare- Corona Death Compensation
343. Disbursement of corona death compensation to families of doctors, nurses, health workers, frontline workers
and policemen (women).
344. Govt will improve the standards of District Hospitals including scan facilities, clinical lab, cancer treatment
center, gynaecology, CCU, nephrology, dialysis center, blood transfusion at nominal cost for the unaffordable and
poor.
345. Urge the Central Govt to set up ESI Hospitals in Tiruppur and Erode.
346. With the advice of Physiotherapy Council, physiotherapy centers will be established in every ward level
hospital.
347. Revival of ‘Kalaignar Kaapeetu Thittam’ and restructure the ‘ Varummun Kaapom Thittam’ that has failed
under the ADMK Govt. Both schemes will be regularised and provide 100% healthcare insurance for conditions
including heart attack, cancer, Kidney issues. Also, victims of road accidents covered under Kalaignar Kaapeetu
Thittam will be prioritised to receive immediate treatment. Smart Card technology will be used in healthcare
insurance.
New Advanced Speciality Hospitals
348. Using state funds, advanced speciality hospitals will be established in Kovai, Nellai, Trichy and Krishnagiri
and the hospitals will become operational within three years.
349. To enable medical access for people in villages, mobile hospitals will be introduced. To supplement this,
ambulances operating under 108 will be increased in number to 2000, and each Panchayat Union will get 6
ambulances.
350. A medical emergency center will be set up for every 50 km along the District Highways.
351. Multipurpose hospitals will be established in hill stations like Nilgiris, Kodai, Yercaud, Yelagiri to improve
healthcare infrastructure in the region and to improve access for the people.
352. Dedicated wing to treat patients with diabetes, blood pressure will be set up in every government hospital.
353. Rotavirus vaccine, meningococcal vaccine, hepatitis vaccine will be administered for free to all new-borns
and infants.
3 advanced & modern hospitals in Chennai
354. To enable healthcare access for the people residing in the areas recently included under Chennai district, 3
modern hospitals will be set up in Tambaram, Sholinganallur and Maduravoyal.
355. Following Chennai and Madurai Govt hospitals, other district hospitals will also be equipped to perform heart
surgeries.
356. Steps to fill up the job vacancies in government hospitals will be undertaken including regularisation of
contract workers to permanent employees.
357. With the increasing demand for paramedics, both locally and globally, Para Medical Courses will be
introduced.
358. Immunisation program will be improved to expand its scope and ensure 100 percent coverage of all eligible
children as against the present 56 percent coverage.
359. Government recognition for professionally qualified Indian traditional medicine practitioners including
Ayurveda, siddha, homeopathy, unani, acupuncture.
360. De- Addiction Centers will be established to help recovering addicts. Other initiatives to introduce prohibition
of alcohol in a phased manner will be undertaken.
Environment
361. Steps to clean the rivers and other inland waterways in Chennai like Buckingham Canal, Adyar, Cooum,
Mambalam, Captain Cotton will be undertaken per the National River Cleaning program. This program was
started with a budget of 1300 crores, of which Chennai was allocated 490 crores; however, the program was not
implemented fully. This initiative will ensure to prevent sewage from draining into these rivers; to remove the solid
waste from the waterways; and to keep the river clean and free flowing. As a result, it will control mosquito
breeding and reduce malodour.
362. Tamil Nadu Conservation Project will be introduced to undertake river cleaning work in Cauvery, Vaigai,
Tamirabarani, Thenpenna, Palaru, etc to prevent solid waste discharge into the river streams.
363. Tamil Nadu Damage to Public Property Act and rules will be amended to incorporate to punish the violators
that destroy public property using materials that are an environmental hazard.

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

21/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

364. Ornithology Centers will be set up to study the birds and their environment in selected bird sanctuaries of the
state.
365. As promised and executed under DMK regime, many trees will be planted across the state under a devised
scheme to reduce pollution and improve the environment.
366. CNG run buses will be introduced in all towns and corporation areas in Tamil Nadu.
367. To conserve the environment, forest restoration program will be implemented effectively. Also, to preserve
the distinct natural forest resources including wildlife, steps will be undertaken to increase the forest cover of the
state to 33%.
Forest Commission
368. Forest Commission will be set up to preserve forest lands; to govern and administer forest resources; to
prevent human-wildlife conflict and; to resolve pending claims of local residents. Also, courses on Forestry will be
introduced in colleges situated in places like Dharmapuri, Thenkasi, Gobichetipalayam.
Sports
369. Olympic Academy will be established in four zones in Tamil Nadu. Specialised and advanced training in
multiple sport disciplines along with incentives will be provided to the athletes. Competition related expenses will
be entirely borne by the Government.
370. A grand Games Village will be established in Chennai to provide high quality training for all sports.
371. Reservation for sportspersons will be implemented in a proper manner in government jobs and the traditional
Tamil sport of Silambam will be added to this list.
372. Government jobs will be provided for people who excel in sports and have won several medals/trophies.
They will be provided with pension benefits once they retire.
Jallikattu
373. A monthly assistance of Rs 1000 will be provided to those who raise the bulls participating in the traditional
sport of Jallikattu.
Legislative Assembly
Legislative Council
374. DMK will initiate the legal action required to re-constitute the Legislative Council in Tamil Nadu to enable
political thinkers, teachers, educationists, local body representatives, social activists, writers and poets as MLCs
to voice their opinions and provide valuable inputs.
Live Telecast
375. The proceedings of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly will be telecast live as it is done in Parliamentary
and other state legislative proceedings.
Convening the Legislative Assembly for minimum 100 days
376. During the present ADMK government, the legislative assembly has been convened for only a few days,
because of which many problems faced by people could not be addressed. Therefore, DMK will ensure that the
legislative assembly is convened for at least 100 days or more.
Governance
Grievance Redressal in 100 days
377. DMK leader MK Stalin has promised that he will resolve all the complaints received through “Ungal
Thogudhiyil Stalin'' events within 100 days of the formation of the new government. For this reason, a separate
department will be created and will be monitored directly by the Chief Minister. Special camps will be held in
constituency-village panchayat level to engage with the public on these issues.
Grievance Hearings in all Assembly Constituencies
378. Grievance Hearing meetings will be held in all Assembly Constituencies in the presence of elected
representatives for the welfare of the public.
379. Re-alignment of IAS & IPS officers will be made to ensure effective governance in the state.
New Districts
380. An Executive level committee will be formed to improve administrative facilities by forming new districts.
Division of bigger Town panchayats will be considered.
381. Kanchipuram, Tambaram, Cuddalore, Thiruvannamalai, Kumbakonam, Theni-Periyakulam, Allinagaram,
Karur, Namakkal, Karaikudi, Pudukottai, Virudhunagar towns will be upgraded to municipal corporations.
Th

h thi

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

b

i f

iliti

h

d

t

t

it ti

d i ki

t

ill b

id d t

b tt

lit

22/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

Through this, basic facilities such as roads, transport, sanitation, drinking water will be provided at a better quality.
Stormwater drainage will be constructed in all municipalities to prevent flooding.
Police Department
382. 1-day holiday will be provided to all police personnel.
383. Free medical treatment will be provided to police personnel who are injured during duty. In case of their
unfortunate death, a compensation of Rs 1 crore will be provided to their families for relief.
Police Commission
384. A Police Commission will be constituted again and suggestions & recommendations of the Commission will
be implemented.
385. A grievance redressal mechanism for police personnel will be created in district and state level.
386. Small punishments given to police personnel in department related issues will be withdrawn and their
promotion cycles will be streamlined.
387. Police department vacancies will be filled annually. Compassionate employment will be offered without delay.
388. Medical and Accident Relief Assistance provided to police personnel will be increased to a higher amount.
389. Police personnel who join at second-level and officers who have served for 7 years for first-level personnel
will receive promotion to serve as Head Constables within 10 years and to serve as SSI within 20 years.
390. The work period of Home Guard will be increased and more personnel will be appointed.
Urban Development
391. Multi-level vehicle parking facilities will be created in cities such as Chennai.
392. Auto Nagars will be created in important cities such as Perunthurai, Salem, Sanagiri, Trichy, Tiruchengode,
etc.
393. Suburban areas with modern amenities will be created nearing large cities Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore,
Trichy, Salem, Tirunelveli.
Drinking Water
394. New drinking water pipes will be installed for the benefit of all households in corporation areas in Chennai
and other cities to prevent accidents due to water lorry transport.
Special scheme to install Drinking Water pipes in villages
395. Old, damaged pipes will be replaced and streamlined good quality drinking water distribution will be ensured
in all villages. A special scheme will be implemented to ensure the delivery of this facility and to monitor the
working conditions of these pipes.
396. Naripaiyur water desalination plant project will be completed in due time and a solution to drinking water
scarcity will be provided to the people from surrounding areas. The water desalination project will be extended to
other coastal areas after review.
397. Drinking water connection will be provided within 15 days of request in town panchayats, municipalities and
corporations.
Housing Boards
398. Rs 4 lakh subsidy will be provided to build concrete houses in rural areas. Houses will be allotted for those
who possess the identity cards issued during the DMK period for this scheme. The condition that this scheme is
not applicable to some will be reconsidered. All houses that have been partially constructed will be completed.
399. Beneficiaries who have not received the sale deed for houses purchased from TN Housing Board and Slum
Clearance Board through Hire Purchase scheme will be issued the sale deeds after review.
Samathuvapuram (Equality villages)
400. Samathuvapuram scheme introduced under DMK regime aimed to improve social harmony and reduce
caste discrimination. The scheme started with 240 Thanthai Periyar Ninaivu Samathuvapurams, which was later
encroached by unauthorised persons in many places. DMK will regularise the samathuvapuram and ensure to
meet its social goals.
401. The Adi Dravidar Housing & Development scheme, the Indira Ninaivu Housing Scheme for people below
poverty line, and the Slum Clearance Urban Housing Scheme are some of the innovative and holistic schemes
that aimed to provide ownership and reduce the credit burden on the poor. Steps will be taken to refurbish house
buildings that are over 15 years old including the dilapidated ones.
House Site Patta
402 Patta will be issued after verifying occupancy details of Grama Natham lands Similarly in urban areas patta
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

23/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

402. Patta will be issued after verifying occupancy details of Grama Natham lands.Similarly, in urban areas, patta
will be issued subject to legal obligations.
403. A separate Commission with members from Aavin, Secretaries to the Government, and Milk Producers will
be established to regulate the price for procurement and distribution of milk between Aavin and milk producers.
Regularising milk procurement by Aavin will enable smooth distribution of milk across all government schools in
the state.
404. Workshops for dairy cooperatives will be organised to provide professional management for achieving high
productivity. Aavin will be upgraded with technology to increase the overall milk production and; to encourage
interstate marketing of milk.
Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments
Cable car services for hill temples
405. In selective places like Thiruthani,,Sholingar, Thiruneermalai, Trichy Malaikottai, Tiruchenkodu, winch lines
for cable cars will be laid to carry people to hill temples.
Financial Assistance to Village Temple Priests
406. Priests registered under the Temple Poosarigal Welfare Board will receive a monthly allowance of 2000
rupees. The pension scheme for retired priests (over 60 years) will be increased from 3000 to 4000 rupees.
407. A circumambulation (girivalam) will be converted into a concrete path in Thiruvannamalai. Many trees will be
planted along the entire route to enhance greenery and to maximise the cooling effect of the path.
408. The streets used for Thiruvannamalai Therottam will be converted into concrete roads.
409. Overhead power transmission lines used in Thiruvannamalai will be converted into underground lines to
prevent electrical accidents during Therottam.
410. Trees will be planted along both sides of the Thiruvannamalai hill to improve the region’s green cover.
411. Periodic desilting work will be undertaken in temples ponds across the state.
412. Historic and ancient temples of the state will be renovated and refurbished.
413. The practice of Tamil archanai in temples will be expanded.
414. A high level statutory advisory committee for Hindu temples will be constituted to advise the government on
action plans to maintain and facilitate better temple services.
Consecration of Temples
415. DMK will allocate 1000 crores towards consecration and other festivities of Hindu temples.
416. HR & CE workers that are employed on part-time and contract basis will be regularised and made
permanent including their wages and other employment benefits.
Appointment of Temple priests
417. DMK will appoint the 205 persons who have completed the training in government institutions and are
waiting to become archagars. In 2006, a government order was passed announcing a unique program by which
aspiring Tamil archagars regardless of their community can be appointed as temple priests in the state, including
historic temples. Based on this G.O., about 207 persons had completed this training and only 2 were appointed
under the ADMK government.
Pilgrimage Subsidies
418. Honouring the desires of Hindu worshippers, the TN Tourism Department will provide subsidies for temple
pilgrimage including Rameshwaram, kaasi, Kedarnath, Badrinath, Tirupathi, Puri Jaganath. The program will
select 25 beneficiaries who can choose any one temple of their choice and the government will provide a
maximum of 25,000 rupees.
Vallalar Samarasa Sanmarga Sangam
419. Honouring Vallalar and his teachings on human life, love, charity and divine practice, DMK will establish
Vallalar International Center in Vadalur.
420. DMK will allocate 200 crores towards renovation and refurbishment of Mosques and Churches across the
state.
Tourism Development in temple cities (sacred land)
421. To encourage and promote pilgrimage trips, a spiritual tourism program will be introduced. It entails setting
up new bus stations and accomodation facilities in places like Tiruthani, Thiruvannamalai, Thiruvarangam,
Thiruchendur, Rameshwaram, Kanyakumari, Chidambaram, Nagapatinam, Kuttralam, Nagoor and Velankani.
Harbor

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

24/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

Chennai Port- Thiruvottriyur Seabridge
422. DMK will urge the Central Govt to approve the seabridge project connecting Chennai Port-Thiruvottriyur.
This will eliminate traffic congestion and fasten commercial access to and out of the port.
Transportation Facilities
423. GPS tracking systems and help lines will be mandated in both public and private buses to ensure safety of
passengers and enable effective monitoring for emergency situations.
Cable car service between Pazhani- Kodaikanal hills
424. To encourage and promote tourism in Pazhani and Kodaikanal, ropeway services will be provided.
425. Bus stations under Corporation and Municipality limits will be upgraded including toilets, shower stalls,
changing rooms, and nursing stations to facilitate better access for women commuters.
426. Minibuses between remote areas and main lands were introduced under the DMK regime to improve access
for farmers, students, workers, and other commuters. However, the ADMK government used it to promote their
party logo. DMK will restore the minibus project to its original use and further expand its scope of service.
Regularisation of Bus fare
427. To redeem the Transportation Corporation from revenue loss and distress, recommendations of the 2018
committee will be implemented. Additionally, bus fares will be revised.
428. Medical Insurance will be updated to include coverage for accidents involving Govt buses.
Road Traffic
429. Expedite the Vikravandi- Kumbakonam-Thanjavur 4 lane highway project sanctioned by National Highway
Commission.
430. Conversion of 2 lane and 4 lane roads to 4 lane and 6 lane roads.
431. To reduce traffic congestion in the state, bypass roads will be constructed in cities with most traffic.
432. Elevated Highway will be constructed in Chennai, Kovai, Madurai, Trichy and Nellai to reduce traffic
congestion.
433. Steps will be taken to complete the Chennai- Kanyakumari East Coast Road project.
434. DMK will urge the Central Govt to approve the pending 6 lane Highway project between ChennaiKanyakumari that was introduced during DMK regime.
435. To fulfil the growing transportation needs of commuters, integrated bus stands at a central location aiding
easy access will be established in major cities with advanced facilities. Also, bypass roads will be constructed to
connect to the highways.
Development of Chennai Transport Corporation
436. Complete the construction of pending flyovers and bridges in Chennai to reduce traffic congestion.
437. Laying of speed/express train route between Thiruvanmiyur- Mahabalipuram.
438. Restoration of Buckingham Canal will be undertaken to facilitate inland transportation between EnnoreCentral and Island Ground- Mahabalipuram.
439. Establish a new bus stand near Siruseri to facilitate inter-district luxury bus service.
Rail Traffic
Goods train rail path
440. To encourage smooth interstate freight services connecting Vijayawada, Ennore, Thoothukudi and Chennai
harbors, a new rail traffic lane will be created.
Dindigul-Cumbum-Koodalur Rail track
441.DMK will urge the Central Govt to approve a new broad gauge rail track will be laid between DindigulCumbum-Koodalur. If not sanctioned, then the railways department will be persuaded to issue a no-objection
certificate to permit the state government to undertake this process.
442. Laying of New Rail tracks (Broad Guage)
1. Thirukuvalai- Nagapattinam
2. Thiruvarur- Thiruthuraipoondi- Karaikudi
3. Thanjavur- Orathanadu-Pattukottai
4. Mannarkudi- Mathukkur-Pattukottai
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

25/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

5. Karaikudi- Ramanathapuram-Thoothukudi
6. Madurai- Theni-Bodi
7. Ariyalur-Thanjavur
8. Kumbakonam-Ariyalur/Jayankondam-Virudhachalam
9. Madurai- Melur-Karaikudi
10. Madurai-Aruppukottai-Thoothukudi
11. Avadi-Thiruperumpathur-Guduvanchery
12. Peralam-Karaikkal
13. Erode-Pazhani
14. Mettupalayam-Sathiyamangalam-Gobichetipalayam
15. Vandalur-Valajabath
443. DMK will urge the Central Govt to resume the construction of the second unit of ICF manufacturing
company and expedite its completion.
444. Footover bridges along with auto-instruction/warning devices will be constructed at unmanned level crossing
areas to ensure the safety of lives.
Metro Rail
445. Implement laying of new metro lines in Chennai between Tirisulam- Vandalur, Thirumangalam-MugappairAmbattur; Kathipara- Poonamallee. Also, introduce MRTS for Madurai, Trichy, Salem and Tirunelveli.
446. Subsidised metro rail fare for students.
Air Traffic
447. Urge the Central Govt to declare Madurai airport as International airport. To expand and modernise the
airports in Salem, Thoothukudi
Creation of New Airports
448. Urge the Central Govt to set up new airports in Vellore, Karur, Hosur, Ramanathapuram to bolster the
economic and commercial productivity in the region.
Art and Culture
449. To set up a Museum of Tamil History and Culture in Sivagangai to create awareness and offer teachings
about the historic Tamil civilisation.
450. Folk arts will be featured in Government events, included in school syllabus and an annual festival to feature
folk arts will be conducted by the government to protect the arts and artists.
451. 60% of the welfare boards constituted by DMK have not been paid any attention in the present ADMK
period, including the folk artists welfare board. DMK will ensure that these artists are issued identity cards and
pensions will be provided to them. Steps will be taken to protect these arts.
452. Pongal festival will be celebrated as a grand folk arts and sports extravaganza with competitions and prize
distribution events in all districts in the state.
Dravidian Movement Dheerargal Kottam
453. A Dravidian Movement Dheerargal Kottam will be constructed in Chennai in honor of tall leaders of the
Dravidian movement including Dr C Natesanar, Sir P Theyagarayar, Dr TM Nair who have fought for social justice
and equality for all in our state, because of which we have developed as one of the top states in India.
454. Statues of Pollan, the brave commander of Theeran Chinnamalai and Kuyili who bravely sacrificed her life in
our fight for freedom will be erected in Erode and Sivagangai respectively.
455. Statues of the valorous Veerapandiya Kattabomman and Marudhu brothers will be erected in Chennai.
456. A memorial hall will be constructed in honor of P Subbarayan, the first Tamil Chief Minister of Madras
presidency in Namakkal. He was a great philanthropist who donated most of his wealth for the upliftment of the
poor. He was a tall leader of the state and voiced for the state’s rights in the Indian Parliament as a Member of
Parliament.
457. A statue of Munsiff of Mayuram Vedhanayagam Pillai who wrote the first Tamil novel will be erected in
Mayiladuthurai.
Archaeological Excavation
458 Museums will be constructed to preserve and display the cultural archaeological artifacts found in areas of
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

26/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

458. Museums will be constructed to preserve and display the cultural archaeological artifacts found in areas of
Keezhadi, Adichanallur, Korkai, etc. These will display the greatness of ancient Tamil tribes that was the cradle of
civilisation.
459. Reclamation and restoration of the inscriptions from Indian Archaeological Survey’s office in Mysore,
Karnataka will be carried out.
Disaster Management
460. Necessary IT measures will be taken to inform the public about natural calamities such as storms and floods
through SMS & television.
461. Generator facilities will be provided to police stations, hospitals and revenue offices that function during
floods and heavy rains.
462. Several thousand families were severely affected from the heavy floods in 2015 & 2020 in Chennai. They got
relief despite the inaction of the ADMK government from the relief measures taken by NGOs and individuals who
came forward to help the affected people.
In light of this, a special scheme will be run by the government to train interested NGOs and volunteers in disaster
management skills.
Rural Development
463. In order to completely eradicate the open defecation practice in Tamil Nadu, toilet facilities will be made in
rural areas. Common toilets will be constructed and maintained in a proper manner in places with a lot of kutcha
houses to promote the usage of toilets.
464. A Tamil Nadu Rural Development Fund will be created and importance will be given to rural development.
465. Skill training will be provided to rural youth in plumber, electrician jobs. Awareness about Foot-and-mouth
disease in cattle will be created and experts will train the village people on its treatment.
466. Basic facilities including roads, electricity, medical centres, transport, drinking water, schools will be made
available for people in remote villages, hamlets and villages on top of mountains in Tamil Nadu.
Self Help Groups
467. Anna Marumalarchi Scheme and Namakku Naame scheme will be re-implemented. Infrastructure activities
in villages will be carried out by self-help groups run by unemployed graduates and ITI degree holders in rural
areas.
Construction Sector
468. Construction materials including cement, steel rods, bricks, sand, wood will be listed as essential items and
will be made available at a fair price by the state government.
469. The guideline value of houses and plots have been set very highly by the Registration Department in the
ADMK period. People in the construction industry and it has led to insolvency and bankruptcy in the sector.
Sellers of construction items are also facing a severe economic crisis. Steps will be made to ensure that the
guideline values are set in a fair and reasonable manner by the department.
470. Permission to construct housing complexes, industries, offices and commercial complexes will be granted
within 60 days in a single window system.
Solar panels, ramps for persons with disabilities and rainwater harvesting will be made mandatory for multi
storeyed buildings. Fees for building construction will be reviewed. Fees for transfer of assets between blood
relatives will be reduced.
471. An expert committee will be formed to study the possibility of forming a professional council for civil
engineers similar to the Medical Council and Bar Council.
472. Approval mechanism for construction of houses and offices in own land will be made less complicated.
Judiciary
473. Welfare fund for lawyers will be increased from Rs 7 lakhs to Rs 10 lakhs.
474. Office rooms will be constructed for lawyers in district courts.
475. A separate court will be formed to inquire cases on sexual crimes against women to ensure faster delivery of
justice in these cases.
476. The details of those affected by sexual crimes will be maintained in a highly confidential manner. Separate
sections will be created to carry out investigation on these matters.
Ex-Army Personnel
477. A committee for the welfare of Ex-Army Personnel and their families will be created to address their
grievances. Priority will be given to retired personnel in eligible jobs.

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

27/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

Welfare of Cattle
478. Veterinary hospitals with Blue Cross ambulance service will be created in required places.
479. Steps will be taken to run veterinary camps in all village panchayats.
480. Due compensation will be paid to cattle that die from road accidents.
481. Animal breeds that are indigenous to Tamil Nadu- Rajapalayam Chippiparai dog breed, Kombai breed,
Kangayam Bulls will be conserved.
482. Health cards will be issued for pet animals (cats, dogs) and other animals including cattle, goats.
CCTV Monitoring
483. Legal requirements will be fulfilled to install CCTV to monitor public places including schools, hospitals, bus
stands, police stations and temples.
False cases will be withdrawn
484. False cases charged on the general public who protested against Sterlite, Hydrocarbon, Methane and
Kudankulam projects will be completely withdrawn.
Selection Malpractices in TNPSC
485. Several malpractices have been reported in the TNPSC’s recruitment process due to which deserving
candidates are unable to get jobs. An executive committee will be formed to inquire into this and punish the guilty
officials.
486. Steps will be taken to ensure transparency in recruitment under TNPSC & Teachers Recruitment Board.
Property tax
487. Property tax will not be hiked until the economy completely recovers from the effects of Covid-19.
Privatisation of Railways
488. DMK government will oppose the privatisation of railways which will adversely affect poor people in India.
The central government has been carrying out a privatisation plan for railways which is the primary mode of long
distance transport for the poor and underprivileged.
Privatisation of Banking Sector
489. The erstwhile Congress government implemented the nationalisation of banks to ensure the economic
upliftment of all sections of the society including students, women, small entrepreneurs, etc. The present BJP
government is planning to privatise the banking sector from which only a handful of rich, influential people will
benefit. DMK will urge the central government to drop the idea of banking sector privatisation.
Privatisation of LIC
490. DMK will oppose the privatisation of LIC which is the lifeline of insurance sector in India and the funding
body of several welfare schemes of the Indian government.
Ministry for New Schemes Implementation
491. A Ministry for New Schemes Implementation will be created and headed by a senior minister for the
implementation of the following responsibilitiesA state level executive committee will be formed for faster implementation of the promises made in this
election manifesto
All complaints received during “Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin” election campaign will be addressed in the first 100
days
The CM will address a press conference on the 100th day to brief on the actions taken by this ministry
A review will be done by the CM on the first working day of every month. A report card will be presented to the
Press on the actions taken by Kalaignar’s government.
492. In order to uphold communal harmony in the state, the DMK government will grant approval to religious
institutions to construct religious centres in their own lands irrespective of religious affiliation.
Tamil language mandatory in Schools
493. The DMK government will pass a legislation to ensure Tamil language is taught in all the schools in the state
including Kendriya Vidyalayas.
Release of 7 convicts in Rajiv Gandhi Murder Case
494. DMK will take all necessary action to release the 7 convicts including Perarivalan on a humanitarian basis.
https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

28/29

5/19/23, 5:09 PM

DMK ELECTION MANIFESTO 2021 - ENGLISH

495. 100% of all government and public sector jobs will be allocated to youth from Tamil Nadu.
496. Establish new universities in other major districts like Kanchipuram and Erode.
497. Free bus transportation services for senior citizens (above 70 years) within Tamil Nadu.
498. Propel the Central Govt to include Sri Lanka to the list of nations mentioned under the 2019 amendment to
the Citizenship Act.
499. Steps will be taken to lay new pipelines connecting the Ennore Liquid Natural Gas (LNG) factory with other
power houses that can convert the LNG to generate 2000 MW electricity.
500. Urge the Central Govt to include Sri Lanka as the fourth nation under 2019 amendment to the Citizenship
Act so as to enable citizenship status to Sri Lankan refugees living in camps.
501. Provide free bus fare to women in town bus across the state.
502. As part of CORONA economic support measures to help the poor and unaffordable, DMK will provide cash
stimulus for a sum of 4000 rupees to every ration card holder (rice card) starting from June 2021, on Dr.
Kalaignar’s birthday.
Cooking gas cylinder (100 rupees subsidy)
503. To reduce the financial burden on low to middle income group, cooking gas cylinders distributed to ration
card holders will be subsidised by 100 rupees (for one cylinder alone).
Petrol and Diesel Price
504. DMK will reduce the petrol price by 5 rupees and diesel by 4 rupees per litre each.
Milk Price
505. To reduce the economic burden on low and middle income groups, especially families with newborns and
young children, aavin milk per litre will be reduced from 6 rupees to 3 rupees.
The above manifesto has announced various welfare schemes that require special budget allocation. It is
common perception that amid severe revenue deficit (including PSUs) and high outstanding debt, the schemes
announced are very ambitious.
DMK assures that with an efficient governance model; proper checks and balance to prevent corruption and other
malpractice; efficient plans to increase the productivity and economic output of the state, the announcements and
targets stated in this manifesto are achievable.
DMK has always operated under the motto- Sonnathai Seivom, Seivathai Solvom ( ‘We do what we say; We say
what we do’). In the same spirit and with sincere dedication and passion towards public service, Tamil Nadu will
soon redeem itself and break free from the clutches of the incompetent ADMK government and strengthen its
solidarity under the leadership of DMK-led government and march towards social and economic progression.

https://dmk.in/dmk-manifesto-english-2021

29/29

